Adding 'Updating Terraform Enterprise License' section to Application Administration section (#1777)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/admin/update-tfe-license.html.md

---
## Introduction

Terraform Enterprise requires a license in order to maintain normal operations. These licenses have an expiration date, and must be updated once expired. This article provides the guidelines for updating licenses in Terraform Enterprise.

## Finding the expiration date

There are two methods to find the expiration date from the existing installation of Terraform Enterprise; the Replicated console UI or the Replicated command line interface.

### Replicated Console

1.  Navigate to the Replicated console which is located at `https://<<TFE_HOSTNAME>>:8800` and click on the gear icon on the top-right corner.

    ![View License](./images/view-license.png)

2.  Select the **View License** menu and the details of the existing license will be displayed on the screen with the expiration date.

    ![License Expiration](./images/license-expiration.png)

### Replicated Command Line Interface

1.  Connect to the Terraform Enterprise host machine using SSH.

2.  Use the `replicatedctl license inspect` command to inspect the license information. The `ExpirationTime` value in the output indicates the expiration date/time in UTC.

> 
>         $ replicatedctl license inspect
>         [
>         {
>            "ID": "670bd320b95245325d80be703330f9b3",
>            "Assignee": "Test Customer Name",
>            "LegacyChannelName": "Stable",
>            "ChannelID": "",
>            "Channels": [],
>            "ExpirationTime": "2021-06-30T00:00:00Z",
>            "ExpirationPolicy": "ignore",
>            "IsExpired": false,
>            "IsActivationRequired": false,
>            "ActivationEmail": "",
>            "Fields": [
>                {
>                    "FieldName": "max_hosts",
>                    "FieldTitle": "Maximum Number of Hosts",
>                    "FieldType": "Integer",
>                    "Value": "9999"
>                },
>                {
>                    "FieldName": "min_hosts",
>                    "FieldTitle": "Minimum Number of Hosts",
>                    "FieldType": "Integer",
>                    "Value": "1"
>                }
>            ]
>         }
>         ]
> 

Reviewer: We should wrap this in a code fence

````suggestion
    ```shell
        $ replicatedctl license inspect
        [
        {
           "ID": "670bd320b95245325d80be703330f9b3",
           "Assignee": "Test Customer Name",
           "LegacyChannelName": "Stable",
           "ChannelID": "",
           "Channels": [],
           "ExpirationTime": "2021-06-30T00:00:00Z",
           "ExpirationPolicy": "ignore",
           "IsExpired": false,
           "IsActivationRequired": false,
           "ActivationEmail": "",
           "Fields": [
               {
                   "FieldName": "max_hosts",
                   "FieldTitle": "Maximum Number of Hosts",
                   "FieldType": "Integer",
                   "Value": "9999"
               },
               {
                   "FieldName": "min_hosts",
                   "FieldTitle": "Minimum Number of Hosts",
                   "FieldType": "Integer",
                   "Value": "1"
               }
           ]
        }
        ]
    ```

````

2.  Click on **Sync License** to start the operation.

    ![Sync License](./images/sync-license.png)

#### Replicated Command Line Interface

1.  Obtain the newly updated license file from HashiCorp and copy it to the Terraform Enterprise host machine.

2.  Connect to the Terraform Enterprise host machine using SSH.

3.  Use the following command to load the new license.

        $ replicatedctl license-load < /path/to/license.rli

## Update License - Airgap Installation Type

### Replicated Console

1.  Navigate to the Replicated console, which is located at `https://<<TFE_HOSTNAME>>:8800`.

2.  Click on the gear icon on the top-right corner and select the **Console Settings** menu.

    ![Console Settings](./images/console-settings.png)

3.  Select **Airgapped Settings** from the left-hand menu and upload the license.

    ![Upload license](./images/upload-license.png)

### Replicated Command Line Interface

1.  Obtain the updated license and airgap package from HashiCorp and copy them to the Terraform Enterprise host.

2.  Connect to the Terraform Enterprise host machine using SSH.

3.  Execute the following command, updating the paths as needed.

>         $ replicatedctl license-load --airgap-package /path/to/bundle.airgap < /path/to/license.rli

Reviewer: Wrapped in code fence + broke the long line up a bit for readability.

````suggestion
        ```shell
        $ replicatedctl license-load \
            --airgap-package /path/to/bundle.airgap < /path/to/license.rli
        ```
````

## Troubleshooting Guides

### No error but the license is not updated

In the Airgap installation, the license update operation may finish without any error but the license detail displayed on the Replicated console or the Replicated command line output is still not updated. This symptom can be related to the incorrect license file being used. In order to further identify the symptom, please follow these steps:

1.  Connect to the Terraform Enterprise host machine using SSH.

2.  Examine the output of the command `docker logs replicated` and look for the warning message below.

>          WARN 2021-02-22T01:40:00+00:00 tasks/app_tasksteps.go:113 Airgap license on disk does not match installed license

Reviewer: Wrapped in code fence.

````suggestion
         ```plaintext
         WARN 2021-02-22T01:40:00+00:00 tasks/app_tasksteps.go:113 Airgap license on disk does not match installed license
         ```
````

3.  If this warning message occurs, it indicates that the incorrect license file is being used. Please contact your Customer Success Manager if you have one assigned to your account, or contact [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) for further assistance. When contacting support, please include the output from the `replicatedctl license inspect` command after running it on the existing Terraform Enterprise host machine.

### Unable to sync license: Error: Unsuccessful HTTP response

The error message below may occur due to several possible issues.

>     Unable to sync license: Error: Unsuccessful HTTP response

Reviewer: Wrapped in code fence

````suggestion
    ```plaintext
    Unable to sync license: Error: Unsuccessful HTTP response
    ```
````

*   Mismatched customer name between the installed license and the new license.

    This symptom can happen with the Airgap installation type in some conditions, for example, when a trial license was issued with a customer name and the new paid license was issued on a different customer name. If you are on the Airgap installation and encountered this error, please contact [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) together with the output from the command `replicatedctl license inspect` from the existing Terraform Enterprise host machine to request for further assistance.

### Incorrect version of airgap file

The error message below indicates the incorrect version of airgap file being used against the installed version of Terraform Enterprise.

>     installed app release (325b33bf0ad539c994644423128cad5e:502) does not match the airgap package

Reviewer: Wrapped in code fence.

````suggestion
    ```plaintext
    installed app release (325b33bf0ad539c994644423128cad5e:502) does not match the airgap package
    ```
````

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Updating Terraform Enterprise License - Application Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

Terraform Enterprise requires an up-to-date license to maintain normal operations. These licenses have an expiration date, and must be updated once expired. This article provides the guidelines for updating licenses in Terraform Enterprise.

## Find the License Expiration Date

You can find the expiration date through either the Replicated console UI or the Replicated command line interface.

### Replicated Console

1.  Navigate to the Replicated console at `https://<<TFE_HOSTNAME>>:8800`, and click on the gear icon in the top-right corner.

    ![View License](./images/view-license.png)

2.  Select the **View License** menu to display the license details, including the expiration date.

    ![License Expiration](./images/license-expiration.png)

### Replicated Command Line Interface

1.  Connect to the Terraform Enterprise host machine using SSH.

> 2.  Use the `replicatedctl license inspect` command to inspect the license information. The `ExpirationTime` value in the output indicates the expiration date/time in UTC.

Reviewer: You'll want a line break here to make sure formatting is preserved

```suggestion
2.  Use the `replicatedctl license inspect` command to inspect the license information. The `ExpirationTime` value in the output indicates the expiration date/time in UTC.

```

---
layout: "enterprise"
page_title: "Updating Terraform Enterprise License - Application Administration - Terraform Enterprise"
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

*   Mismatched customer name between the installed license and the new license.

    This symptom can happen with the Airgap installation type in some conditions, for example, when a trial license was issued with a customer name and the new paid license was issued on a different customer name. If you are on the Airgap installation and encountered this error, please contact [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) together with the output from the command `replicatedctl license inspect` from the existing Terraform Enterprise host machine to request for further assistance.

### Incorrect version of airgap file

The error message below indicates the incorrect version of airgap file being used against the installed version of Terraform Enterprise.

    ```plaintext
    installed app release (325b33bf0ad539c994644423128cad5e:502) does not match the airgap package
    ```

> You will be able to identify the version of an airgap file by browsing into the airgap download page where it displays the versions of Terraform Enterprise and their SHA256 checksum values, which can be used to identify against the downloaded airgap package in your local environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The airgap download page displays the versions of Terraform Enterprise and their SHA256 checksum values. Check these against the version of the airgap package in your local environment.
```

         WARN 2021-02-22T01:40:00+00:00 tasks/app_tasksteps.go:113 Airgap license on disk does not match installed license
         ```

3.  Please contact your assigned Customer Success Manager or [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) for further assistance. When contacting support, please include the output from running `replicatedctl license inspect` on the Terraform Enterprise host machine.

### Unable to sync license: Error: Unsuccessful HTTP response

Terraform can produce this error message for several different issues.

    ```plaintext
    Unable to sync license: Error: Unsuccessful HTTP response
    ```

*   Network communication to the Replicated servers

>     Terraform Enterprise requires network communication to the Replicated endpoints, as noted in the [network requirements](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/before-installing/network-requirements.html) guideline. During the license sync operation, the Replicated installer attempts to contact `api.replicated.com` to retrieve the license information. In the online installation type, you might see the above error if the network infrastructure changed after you installed Terraform Enterprise. The specific IP addresses of Replicated services for the Terraform Enterprise can be found in [Replicated’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/replicatedhq/ips/blob/master/ip_addresses.json).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Terraform Enterprise requires network communication to the Replicated endpoints, as noted in the [network requirements](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/before-installing/network-requirements.html) guideline. During the license sync operation, the Replicated installer attempts to contact `api.replicated.com` to retrieve the license information. In the online installation type, you might see the above error if the network infrastructure changed after you installed Terraform Enterprise. The specific IP addresses of Replicated services for the Terraform Enterprise are available in [Replicated’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/replicatedhq/ips/blob/master/ip_addresses.json).
```

*   Customer name on new license does not match existing license

>     This may happen with the Airgap installation type for a variety of reasons. For example, when a trial license was issued with a customer name and the new paid license was issued on a different customer name.  Please contact [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) for assistance. In your request, include the output from running`replicatedctl license inspect` on the Terraform Enterprise host machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This may occur with an Airgap installation for a variety of reasons. One example is when a trial license is associated with a different customer name from the subsequent paid license.  Please contact [HashiCorp Support](https://www.hashicorp.com/technical-support-services-and-policies) for assistance. In your request, include the output from running`replicatedctl license inspect` on the Terraform Enterprise host machine.
```
